TITLE: Calamities & Sabotage Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
ORIGINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/calamities-and-sabotage-guide
FINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/calamities-and-sabotage-guide
SOURCE_SHA256: 645b4573ce658b6b380db91a3ad6b2ab001d7be4e7a1f90b5707ed105200d8fe
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-09-21
--- EXTRACTED_VISIBLE_GUIDE_BODY ---
Table of contents
Introduction
Emergency Shelters
Bad Weather
Sabotage
Dinosaur Escapes
Chaos is inevitable
Even when you do everything right, the situation can get out of control. While prevention is the best medicine, knowing what to do in the case of bad weather, dinosaur escapes or sabotage can make all the difference.
"Oh, yeah. Oooh, ahhh, that's how it always starts. Then later there's running and um, screaming." Dr. Ian Malcolm
Emergency Shelters
Safety Rating
from dropping.
Construct Emergency Shelters to provide Shelter Coverage for guests.
Open the Guests menu.
Select Emergency Shelter.
Choose the Appearance of the Emergency Shelter or create a Custom Design.
Place the Emergency Shelter in your park. Management views and heatmaps will indicate where there is a Low/High Need for a Shelter.
Connect the Emergency Shelter to your path network.
Bad Weather
In some environments, dangerous storms and weather can cause severe damage and disruption to the site.
Maintenance ATV Teams
. A poor response can lead to a low Safety Rating, and dinosaurs escaping.
Some buildings can be upgraded with the Storm Protection Building Upgrade to minimise the damage they can receive during a severe weather.
Did You Know?
Beware of dangerous storms, as they can cause terrible devastation to your operations.
Sabotage
Periodically, dramatic events on the site may require you to make a quick decision. Some decisions may affect the site's Publicity Rating.
Rogue organisations or individuals, or even disgruntled Scientists in your employ, can Sabotage your site by cutting power, poisoning dinosaurs, or stealing cash. The chance of sabotage is increased as Sabotage Risk rises.
Many sabotage events can be resolved using the available vehicle-based Teams in the park.
The risk of Sabotage in your parks can be reduced in a few different ways:
Avoid overworking your Scientists. As Scientists complete work they gain Unrest and if they’re assigned work when at their Unrest limit, they will become Disgruntled damaging their effectiveness and the park’s Publicity Rating. Rest your Scientists in the Staff Centre regularly to reduce their Unrest.
Maintain a positive Publicity Rating. Sometimes you may be forced to make decisions that negatively affect the park’s Publicity Rating but try to avoid damaging it too much or you may see the risk of Sabotage increase.
Be prepared. Sometimes Sabotage will be unavoidable, but you can mitigate the negative impacts by being prepared for when things go wrong. Make use of available tools like the MVU and Maintenance ATV Teams to quickly react to any Sabotage incidents.
Campaign Sabotage
Throughout the campaign, certain parts of Park Infrastructure will be targeted for Sabotages.
In some cases, these Sabotage Events can be resolved by using the Maintenance ATVs to reboot systems that are affected.
Have Maintenance ATVs interact with affected systems like Power Stations or Gates in order to reboot them.
Infrastructure Sabotage
Some forms of sabotage will directly target the infrastructure in your park and can include:
Power Loss can reduce the Power Output from a Power Station, until a Maintenance ATV Team is tasked to resolve the issue.
Electric Fence Failure can power down the electric fences in the site, lowering their Security Rating, until a Maintenance ATV Team can be tasked to resolve the issue.
Gate Failure can force gates open throughout the site, allowing dinosaurs to escape, until a Maintenance ATV Team can be tasked to resolve the issue.
Financial Sabotage
Hitting your finances can be an effective form of sabotage and can include:
Guest Protest lowers the site's Publicity Rating, affecting the number of guests that will visit the site. After resolving the sabotage, the Publicity Rating will recover over time.
Theft will result in cash being stolen from the site.
Dinosaur Sabotage
The dinosaurs themselves can be a target for sabotage, including:
Dinosaur Poisoning affects the animals of a site, giving them Diseases that will require an MVU Team to resolve.
Incubation Failure can result in Hatchery eggs becoming non-viable.
Dinosaur Food Poisoning can pass Diseases onto dinosaurs. It can be resolved with Ranger Teams tasked to Disinfect the Feeders.
Dinosaur Escapes
Dinosaurs with a low Comfort Rating may attempt to escape and become a threat to guests. Even comfortable dinosaurs may escape as a consequence of Sabotage or fence damage from other sources.
Rampaging dinosaurs pose a danger to your guests. Open Emergency Shelters near to the dinosaur to minimise the threat to guests and your site’s Incident Prevention and Safety Ratings.
tranquilised
and nearby Shelters opened to minimise the negative effect to Park Safety and Incident Prevention ratings.
enclosures
have an appropriate security rating, make use of security cameras and that you have Capture Teams on hand to deal with any escaped dinosaurs.
Capture Teams will tranquilise escaped dinosaurs and can be assigned in a few ways:
Select a Ranger Post.
Select Add Capture Team.
Choose and select your preferred Capture Team.
The Capture Team will now automatically sedate dinosaurs attacking vehicles within range of the Ranger Post.
Select a Security Camera.
Select Add Capture Team.
Choose and select your preferred Capture Team.
The Capture Team will now sedate any escaping dinosaurs observed by this Security Camera.
Select a Capture Team in the Response Facility or out in your park.
Select Add Task.
Select the dinosaur you want the Capture Team to tranquilise.
Capture Teams can also be assigned to Security Cameras and Ranger Posts in this way.
Use the Quick Access menu when playing on gamepad.

