Table of contents
Introduction
Acquiring Dinosaurs for your Parks
Caring for your Dinosaurs
Monitoring Your Dinosaurs
Aggressive Dinosaur Behaviours
Learn how to acquire dinosaurs and take care of their needs
Dinosaurs are the heart of your parks in Jurassic World Evolution 3 and it’s up to you to source and care for them.
"T. rex doesn't want to be fed. He wants to hunt. Can't just suppress 65 million years of gut instinct" Dr. Alan Grant
Acquiring Dinosaurs for your Parks
Help life find a way by encouraging natural breeding of your dinosaurs or take matters into your own hands with breeding programmes and invest in genetic research.
Synthesis and Incubation
Your Scientists can use the genetic information they find from Fossils to Synthesise dinosaurs for your park.
Use Hatcheries to view your Genomes of different dinosaur species. You can also modify Genomes here and use them to Synthesise new Dinosaurs.
How To Build a Hatchery
Hatcheries allow you to synthesise and release new dinosaurs in your park.
Open the Enclosures menu.
Select either the Hatchery, Aviary Hatchery or Lagoon Hatchery.
Choose the Appearance or create a Custom Design.
Attach the Hatchery to the appropriate enclosure type.
Connect the Hatchery to your path network and provide it with Power.
Scientists are needed to carry out Synthesis, as well as adequate time and money. Each Hatchery has several slots that can be used to synthesise multiple dinosaur eggs, either of the same or different species, at the same time.
Did You Know?
Add the Advanced Equipment Upgrade to the Hatchery to ensure a larger egg batch.
You can use Genetic Modification to alter the chances of certain Traits manifesting in synthesised dinosaurs. New modifications can be Researched at the Science Centre.
After Synthesis at a Hatchery, viable Eggs can be viewed and selected for Incubation. Scientists are needed to carry out incubation.
How To Synthesise Dinosaurs
Bring prehistoric species into the modern age, by synthesising DNA in your park.
Select a Hatchery and choose an Empty Bay to Synthesise an animal in.
Choose a species from the available menu. The variety of animals available will depend on the type of Enclosure and which genomes you have unlocked.
Use Research and Expeditions to expand your Genome library. Scientists will explore new dig sites and unlock available DNA that can be used to unlock new species.
Modify the Genome (if you have researched this) to affect the traits and skin of your dinosaur.
Select Begin Synthesis to start the process of creating dinosaur eggs.
Choose which eggs you would like to synthesise and select Begin Incubation.
You can Release your dinosaurs into an attached enclosure or Release Via Airlift to another location.
Any manifested Traits can be viewed when selecting viable Eggs. You can also choose the Sex of the dinosaur at this point (once Male Synthesis has been Researched – learn more about Research in the Park Management Guide).
After Incubating the selected eggs, the resulting adult dinosaurs can be released either directly from the Hatchery, or via Airlift to more distant locations.
How To Transport Dinosaurs
Transport Dinosaurs around your park or rewild them back into the world.
To Transport a dinosaur, it will need to be tranquilised first. Select your Response Facility and assign your Capture Team to Tranquilise the dinosaur you want to transport.
Alternatively, use the Quick Access menu when playing on gamepad.
Dinosaurs can also be tranquilised and transported in one single action by toggling “Transport Dinosaur” when assigning the Capture Team.
Select the Transport tool and choose a tranquilised dinosaur to transport.
You can now move your dinosaur to a new enclosure, to a delivery zone or even into guest areas if you want to cause a little chaos...
Rewild allows you to send your dinosaurs back out into the world at a cost. Multi Select Mode allows you to transport groups of dinosaurs, depositing them in various enclosures or delivery zones.
Did You Know?
Dinosaurs can be airlifted from the hatchery to different areas of the park.
Genetic Modification
When a Genome is synthesised it can manifest different Traits. Traits can alter overall health, behaviours and species attributes, such as increased expected lifespan, increased resilience to disease or decreased appetite.
Each dinosaur in your park has a set of characteristics which determine how they behave, their appeal and their hardiness. These include:
Appetite
Sociability
Thirst
Skittish
Fitness
Aggression
Lifespan
Offence
Resilience
Defence
Nocturnal
Intelligent
Humility
Compatibility
Tolerance
Fertility
Habituation
Comfort
The characteristics of your dinosaurs are defined by both their species and any Traits or Genetic Modifications they may have. It’s important to monitor these characteristics as they can indicate when your dinosaurs require additional care, such as access to more food.
Each Genome has predetermined chances for positive or negative traits. Genetic Modification can affect the chance of each type of Trait manifesting during synthesis, however some Traits are rare characteristics and will only manifest randomly.
The number of available modifications increases with higher Genome progress. New modifications can be Researched at the Science Centre.
Did You Know?
Genetic modifications are a great way to change how your dinosaur looks and behaves.
Dinosaur Breeding
For the first time in the Jurassic World Evolution series, you can now breed dinosaurs and raise juveniles in your parks.
Male and female dinosaurs can breed if there are suitable Nests placed within their Territory, their Territory is large enough and not overpopulated, and if they're Fertile. The chance of breeding is based on the Female dinosaur's Fertility, the Compatibility between her and her chosen mate, Nest locations and any Traits the breeding pair have. These will vary from species to species, meaning some animals will be much easier to breed than others.
Fertility and Compatibility Traits can be Researched in the Science Centre and used to Genetically Modify synthesised dinosaurs in order to increase their chances of naturally breeding.
Structured Breeding Programmes allow you to breed dinosaurs with specific qualities by carefully choosing breeding pairs. You can set up Structured Breeding Programmes from a Nest, to further boost the chance of successful breeding between a pair of dinosaurs. You need a Scientist to set up a Structured Breeding Programme, as well as enough time and money.
How To Breed Dinosaurs
Help life find a way by breeding and bringing juvenile dinosaurs into your park.
To breed dinosaurs naturally or with a Breeding Program, build an appropriate Nest for the species and their environment.
Natural Breeding
Female species (not including hybrids) have a Fertility menu, which shows their chance of Breeding.
If a male and female have their needs met, then there is a chance they will breed. This can be affected by many factors including Environmental Needs, traits and the species base breeding chance.
You will receive a notification if a male and female dinosaur have bred and produced juvenile dinosaurs.
Structured Breeding Program
Select a nest and choose Create Plan.
Choose the eligible male and female animals and select Start Program to assign scientists.
Once the Structured Breeding Program is complete, if it is successful, the nest will be claimed by one of the parents and eggs will be laid.
After successfully breeding, either naturally or via a Breeding Program, eggs will be found within the Nest. After some time, Juveniles will then emerge from the nest and into the site.
Did You Know?
Juveniles can inherit Traits and their appearance from their genetic ancestors.
Caring for your Dinosaurs
Your dinosaurs' needs are broken down into two categories:
Environmental Needs – the enclosure and surrounding environment needs of the dinosaur. Includes their preferred Territory and the percentage split of their required landscape such as pasture, barren, water etc.
Social Needs – the dinosaur’s preference for other animals in their enclosure. Includes Adult Population, number of males & females and Cohabitation discomfort.
Both of these directly affect a dinosaur’s Comfort Rating.
Comfort Rating
A dinosaur's Comfort panel shows how well their needs are being met.
Keeping all of these needs satisfied within a dinosaur's Territory is key to keeping them comfortable.
Social issues can be solved by adjusting the makeup of the population within that dinosaur's Territory. Environmental issues can be solved by using the Environment Tools to adjust the terrain within that dinosaur's Territory.
Dinosaurs with a low Comfort Rating are likely to attempt to escape, and can become threats to Guests. They can also cause themselves Injuries in their attempts to escape.
The Comfort panel will give you hints on how to improve a dinosaur’s Comfort Rating when it is too low.
How To Increase Dinosaur Comfort
Dinosaur Comfort is directly affected by their social and environmental needs. Dinosaurs with a low comfort score are more likely to get sick or attempt escape.
Edit a species' environment. The dinosaurs' Environmental needs will vary from species to species but creating a large enough enclosure with the correct plant life is a good place to start. Herbivores will require certain plants to feed, whereas carnivores will require a feeder.
Consider the size of your dinosaur population. Each species will have different Social needs and this includes the number of male and female dinosaurs, the overall population size and Cohabitation Discomfort. To create a peaceful cohabitation enclosure, look at a dinosaurs Cohabitation Preferences in the Territory tab.
Give your dinosaurs space away from guests. While visible dinosaurs will increase your park’s appeal, some species are less likely to breed if areas like their nests are in view of guests.
Territory
Dinosaurs of the same species that share the same space will form a Territory around them. Dinosaurs' Social and Environmental Needs are altered by this Territory, and this ultimately affects their Comfort Rating.
A dinosaur's Social and Environmental Needs can only be satisfied by altering the conditions and terrain within their Territory. Where possible dinosaurs will shape their Territory to try and meet their needs from the local Environment.
As the population within a Territory grows, so will the required Environmental Needs and overall space required to maintain a good Comfort Rating. As Territories overlap between species, Cohabitation issues may arise that can also affect the Comfort Rating of dinosaurs.
Did You Know?
Make sure you attend to a dinosaur's Environmental Needs, otherwise they may get unhappy.
Cohabitation Preferences
Each dinosaur has a Territory Type which can be found within its Territory Panel. If a dinosaur's Territory overlaps with another, the Cohabitation Preferences shown within that panel will determine the effect on their Social Needs.
Dinosaurs that like the Territory Type or Species listed in the panel will be able to share Territory without issue. If they Dislike the Territory Type or Species listed, they will gain Cohabitation Discomfort instead.
If no preference is listed for the overlapping Territory, a modest amount of Cohabitation Discomfort will be gained.
Did You Know?
Monitor your dinosaurs' social status, as many dinosaurs like to be with others of their kind.
Hunger
Keeping your dinosaurs fed is no mean feat! Manage your prehistoric species hunger with a variety of feeders and plants, based on their diet and environment.
Feeders
Herbivores do not require Feeders to satisfy their Hunger Need. Meeting their Environmental Needs within their Territory will ensure they have what they require to satisfy their hunger. You can edit this with the Environment Tools.
Carnivores and some Piscivores, such as the Megalodon, require Feeders to satisfy their Hunger Need. Place specialised feeders in their territory according to their Environmental Needs and ensure you keep them well-stocked.
Some dinosaurs require Prey to satisfy their Environmental and Hunger Needs. They can also satisfy those needs by Hunting live Prey, like other dinosaurs.
Palaeobotany
Palaeobotany has returned many long-extinct foliage types for use on site. These allow the recreation of suitable prehistoric environments, especially for Herbivores that rely on them to satisfy their Environmental and Hunger Needs.
Use the Environment Tools to add Paleo Plants to suitable Territories based on the Environmental Needs of the species within them. You will be able to monitor if the environment meets the dinosaurs’ needs by viewing the Comfort panel.
Paleo Plants that satisfy a dinosaur's Environmental Needs are highlighted within the Environment Tool panel. Paleo Plants can also satisfy more than one Environmental Need at a time.
Juvenile Dinosaurs
Juveniles have their own set of Social and Environmental Needs, and these can be different to their adult counterparts.
These include:
Juvenile Population
Number of Adult Females of the species
As they share their Territory with adults, extra care may be required to meet all their needs, such as Cohabitation Discomfort, and maintain a high Comfort Rating.
Juveniles will eventually grow up into adults, and their Appeal Rating will be modified based on their Comfort Rating during childhood, and their naturally bred Generation (how long their lineage is). Juveniles growing into adulthood will also impact the Social and Environmental Needs within a Territory; possibly increasing the amount of space needed to maintain a high Comfort Rating.
Different species will have different parenting styles. Some species can even be hostile to their own children. Juveniles also inherit Traits, and skin and pattern colouring, from their parents and ancestors.
Future Generations of Dinosaurs
Supporting generations of dinosaurs means caring for juveniles as they take time to mature, giving Adults the right environment to thrive, and looking after them as they age. Remember, death is always sad, but it is as much a part of the natural order as life is.
Dinosaurs are sensitive to total territory space, so make sure that the next generation has room to thrive before they arrive. Expansion isn't always the answer though. Once a population stabilises, their overall numbers will stay roughly consistent. Though there are always exceptions to these rules...
Like any other animal, Juvenile dinosaurs inherit the traits and appearances of their parents. From time to time, DNA may mutate and introduce a new trait or appearance to a bloodline.
Did You Know?
You can name your dinosaur in their information panel.
Monitoring Your Dinosaurs
Your dinosaurs will need more than just their needs met to remain healthy! Over the course of their life, your dinosaurs may suffer from various Diseases or Injuries.
Diseases
There are various scenarios which can cause dinosaurs to develop a disease or ailment:
Medicine Required
Cause: A dinosaur is suffering from a Disease with an unknown cause.
Cure: This disease must be treated by an MVU Team. Research the relevant cure at the Science Centre.
Sandstorm
Cause: A sandstorm has caused a dinosaur to gain a disease.
Cure: Some sandstorm-caused diseases can be treated with darts from an MVU Team.
Unmet Needs
Cause: A dinosaur is suffering from a Disease due to unmet Environmental Needs.
Cure: Satisfy a dinosaur's Environmental Needs in order to cure these diseases.
Infected Feeder
Cause: A new Disease has been found in your park, caused by an infected feeder.
Cure: To prevent further outbreaks, send a Ranger Team to disinfect the feeder.
Did You Know?
Diseases can spread to nearby dinosaurs, so make sure you quickly respond to the disease using the MVU to scan the dinosaur to know what to do next.
These scenarios can result in a wide variety of ailments or diseases, with different effects on your dinosaurs.
Ailment
Description
Algae Poisoning
Common symptoms are fatigue and low health. Ensure dinosaurs have enough Water in their territory to cure this disease.
Avian Pox
Leads to health loss and eventually death. This disease moves between dinosaurs through direct contact.
Bird Flu
Leads to health loss and eventually death. Ensure dinosaurs have enough Open Space in their territory to cure this disease.
Bracken Poisoning
Common symptoms are fatigue and low health. Ensure dinosaurs have enough Low Leaves in their territory to cure this disease.
Coccidioidomycosis
Lowers a dinosaur's max health and stamina. Caused by exposure to sandstorms. Non-fatal but requires medication.
Common Cold
Lowers dinosaur's max health and stamina. Can escalate, in some cases becoming fatal. Satisfy environmental needs to cure.
Common Cold (Escalation)
This dinosaur's Common Cold has escalated. Satisfy environmental needs issues urgently. MVU teams can temporarily boost health.
Cryptosporidiosis
Makes dinosaurs dehydrated. This disease can spread throughout the park and is caused by parasites.
E. Coli
A powerful foodborne disease that weakens dinosaurs and is fatal unless cured with darts.
Foot and Mouth
Leads to health loss and eventually death. Ensure dinosaurs have enough Open Space in their territory to cure this disease.
Infected Wound
Leads to health loss and eventually death. Ensure injuries are treated quickly to avoid this disease.
Leaves High Disease
Leads to fatigue and low health. Ensure dinosaurs have enough High Leaves in their territory to cure this disease.
Rabies
Results in increased aggression. This disease is spread through saliva. If not medicated, can escalate and become fatal.
Rabies (Escalation)
This dinosaur's rabies was not medicated, and has escalated. This stage of the disease is fatal unless cured with darts.
Round Worm
A foodborne parasitic disease that lowers appetite.
Salmonella
A powerful foodborne disease that weakens dinosaurs and is fatal unless cured with darts.
Silicosis
Weakens dinosaurs. Caused by exposure to sandstorms. Dinosaurs will recover from this disease over time.
Tuberculosis
An infectious disease that can be spread through the air and through direct contact. Can be fatal unless cured with darts.
Use a dinosaur's Ailments panel for more information, including Disease effects and the recommended next steps.
Injuries
Dinosaurs in your park may experience injuries as a result of escapes, fights with other dinosaurs or other causes. Each of these injuries can have a different impact on the dinosaur and will require treatment.
Injury
Description
Broken Claw
If untreated, can lead to the major injury Ingrown Claw.
Broken Wing
Reduces mobility for flying dinosaurs.
Concussion
Leads to low energy and more frequent sleep.
Damaged Tooth
Lowers a dinosaur's ability to fight.
Frost Bite
Leads to serious fatigue.
Hypothermia
Can put an animal into a coma. Dangerously low body temperatures can be fatal if not treated immediately.
Ingrown Claw
This painful major injury makes movement difficult for animals.
Internal Bleeding
A serious medical emergency which can lead to death, and should be treated as soon as possible.
Laceration
Leads to fatigue, health loss, and eventually death. Requires immediate treatment.
Minor Fracture
Increases chance of gaining a Major Fracture. Heals on its own, but weakens dinosaurs in the meantime.
Major Fracture
Without treatment, this injury makes it hard for dinosaurs to move without pain.
Organ Trauma
Can lead to organ failure and eventually death if left untreated.
Second Degree Burn
Leads to fatigue and low health. Ensure dinosaurs are comfortable to prevent escape attempts.
Sprain
Lowers overall stamina.
Surface Wound
Leads to a gradual loss of health.
Swallowed Object
Lowers appetite and leads to health loss. Assign Capture teams to Ranger Posts to prevent dinosaur attacks.
Swallowed Phone
Misplaced possessions need to be extracted from a dinosaur's stomach and returned to their owner, or next of kin.
Third Degree Burn
Leads to fatigue and low health. Ensure dinosaurs are comfortable to prevent escape attempts.
Major Injuries require special treatment at the Palaeo-Medical Facility. Dinosaurs need to be transported, using the Transport Tool, directly into the facility to receive treatment.
Did You Know?
Dinosaur diseases and injuries cannot be addressed until they've been identified.
Death
Dinosaurs can die for a variety of reasons:
Starvation
Hunting
Dehydration
Ailment
Combat
Old Age
The length of a dinosaur's lifespan is based on the dinosaur's species, and the presence of the Lifespan Trait. Traits can be altered through Genetic Modification at a Hatchery before synthesising them. Dead dinosaurs can be removed from a site using the Transport Tool.
Did You Know?
The decaying carcasses of diseased dinosaurs can be a potential source of disease if eaten by other dinosaurs, and should be removed as soon as possible.
Aggressive Dinosaur Behaviours
Dinosaurs are wild animals, even in captivity in your park, and as such they will sometimes display more aggressive behaviours. These behaviours can be for survival, to assert dominance in herd territories or even to protect juveniles.
Hunting
Carnivores and Piscivores are able to hunt Prey within their Territory as a way to satisfy their Hunger Need. Both Prey from feeders, and natural Prey like other dinosaurs, can be hunted.
Some dinosaurs require Prey as part of their Environmental Needs in order to maintain a High Comfort Rating. Hunting gives these species an alternative Food source. Some more aggressive species have a Need for Prey and will need them added to their enclosures.
Dominance
Dominance is a measure of a dinosaur's ability to Fight for Territory based on its Combat Stats, Infamy and Traits.
The dinosaur with the highest dominance in a Territory will try to become the Alpha by fighting the current Alpha.
Did You Know?
Mixing the wrong species can result in dead dinosaurs – keep them separated unless you want a bloodbath!
Infamy
Dinosaurs will gain Infamy as they perform various infamous acts around your parks, including hunting, fighting, killing other animals, gaining scars, breaking out from their enclosures and terrorising your guests.
Dinosaurs with a high level of Infamy will also exhibit higher dominance, which may result in clashes with other dinosaurs over territory.
Infamy will gradually fade over time back to a minimum level; however, each infamous act a dinosaur completes will raise this minimum.
Dinosaur Fights
Dinosaurs can come into conflict with each other for many reasons, and these conflicts can result in injury or even Death. Dinosaurs will Fight for dominance of their own Territory, and also over the Territory of other species.
Dinosaurs with a low Comfort Rating will sometimes Fight each other out of agitation. Parents of Juvenile Dinosaurs will Fight any other Dinosaur that poses a threat to their young.
Dinosaur Intelligence
The Intelligent Trait can be synthesised into or inherited by a dinosaur. Dinosaurs with this trait have a high Appeal Rating, but are dangerous additions to the park.
Dinosaurs with the Intelligent Trait are always on the lookout around their enclosure for food (including plants for herbivores), prey (such as live goats), or guests on paths. If they see any of these, they will try to escape their enclosure regardless of their Comfort Rating.
Food, guests and prey should be kept away from the outskirts of any Intelligent dinosaur’s Territory. Alternatively, use Fences with a high Security Rating to prevent escape, and Security Cameras & Capture Teams to contain any rampaging dinosaurs.
