TITLE: Finances Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
ORIGINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/finances-guide
FINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/finances-guide
SOURCE_SHA256: f9b17bd1a29e3c3aea2747bc57bfbb09c633d0ce6efc3dec337e577b244b60b4
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-09-21
--- EXTRACTED_VISIBLE_GUIDE_BODY ---
Table of contents
Introduction
Finances
Amenities
Contracts
Bankruptcy
Money makes the world go round
No dinosaur park is truly a success until it’s producing enough money to keep itself running, purchase new dinosaurs and fund expansions.
"It is our board of directors which I must face, not my uncle." Peter Ludlow
Finances
Economy is a breakdown of your park's ability to generate money. Dinosaurs attract guests, and guests have needs that will make them happy once met. When in the park guests spend money at amenities. Modifying these amenities can satisfy guests further, which encourages them to spend more money during their visit. You will also gain money from Ticket Sales based on the number of guests visiting your park.
Finances consist of two sections within the Finances menu. First is Income and Upkeep, which are an assessment of the site's profits over time. The second section details one-off Proceeds and Spending from activities such as selling Minerals or constructing new buildings.
Sourcing new dinosaurs, building facilities, creating enclosures, placing paths etc. will all require you to spend money. It’s critical that you both have the money “in the bank” to fund these endeavours, while also running a profitable park which is able to recover from your spending periods.
Periods of low profitability, such as after a disaster, will constrict the ability to spend money. It’s best to resolve low profitability before embarking on expensive expansions to the site.
The flow of money into your parks can be increased by making improvements across multiple areas.
Attract more guests to your park by improving Guest Comfort, Guest Approval and Park Appeal to increase your ticket sales and maximise usage of your existing Amenities.
Build more Amenities that target your park’s Guest Demographics. If your Amenities are at capacity, consider upgrading to a larger sized Amenity to serve more guests.
Take on and complete Contracts to receive an immediate influx of money.
Customise your Amenities to improve profits. Change Products or Change Features at an Amenity to better serve the Guest Demographics and improve profitability. Use the Profit Generation Management View to quickly identify Amenities making a Loss or a Profit.
Cut your costs where possible. Fire inactive or unneeded Scientists, pause your park’s expansion and put a hold on any Research or Expeditions until your cash balance is healthy.
Amenities
There are three types of Amenity buildings that can be built in the park:
Food
Drink
Shopping
These Amenities offer the chance to increase income by selling products to park guests, especially around busier areas.
Demographics
of nearby guests. The better the match, the higher its income, as more guests will use the Amenity.
Amenity profits can be maximised by placing them in busy areas of the site.
When an Amenity is at capacity, consider upgrading to a larger Amenity of the same type if there are significant numbers of guests nearby that aren't being served.
Amenities provide a source of cash from guests shopping.
Open the Guests menu.
Select the Amenity you would like to place.
Choose the appearance of the Amenity or create a Custom Design.
Place the Amenity in your park. The Demand heatmap will indicate where there is a Low/High Demand for Amenities. The Projected Guests for the Amenity, including the Guest Demographic percentages will also be displayed.
Connect the Amenity to your path network and provide it with Power.
Amenities can be further customised by selecting the placed Amenity and selecting either Change Product or Change Features. This will allow you to customise the Amenity to target specific Guest Demographics, improve Guest Satisfaction and increase profits.
Did You Know?
To maximise profit, customise Amenities to appeal to the different guest groups in the immediate area.
Contracts
Contracts are an opportunity to complete additional tasks at a site for a reward.
Often rewards are cash bonuses, with additional lump sums for completing the task within a timely manner. Some Contracts also affect Reputation levels with different sectors.
Contracts are offered periodically and can be abandoned at any time in order to accept new Contract offers. Only a single Contract can be undertaken at a time.
You can request a new Contract at any time within the Control Room screen.
Contracts can provide you with cash and Faction Reputation benefits.
Open the Control Room.
Select Request Contract.
Choose the Contract that offers the rewards you’d like, paying close attention to the completion requirements. a. You can also pay to refresh the available Contracts if none are suitable.
You can also replace your chosen Contract and choose another; however, all progress on the current Contract will be lost and you will not be able to return to complete it.
Bankruptcy
When facing Bankruptcy, you will need to raise cash in any way available. For example, demolishing unnecessary buildings can offer a small cash refund.
Completing Contracts or taking Photos of dinosaurs can earn additional cash. Firing expensive Scientists can also reduce park outgoings and help recover from Bankruptcy.
Sometimes there will be opportunities to take money from suspicious sources to resolve Bankruptcy. However, there may be consequences to this easy way out...

