help
Contact
Faq
Player Guides
Control Scheme
Support Articles
Contact
Stay up to date, join the community and get involved with the latest from Jurassic World Evolution 3.
Discord
Facebook
Instagram
Tiktok
Twitch
Twitter
Youtube
FAQ
When will Jurassic World Evolution 3 launch?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 launched on 21 October this year!
What platforms is Jurassic World Evolution 3 available on?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 is available for PC, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X|S. Learn more.
How much is Jurassic World Evolution 3?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 is available at the following SRPs:
Standard Edition - £49.99/$59.99/€59.99
Deluxe Edition - £64.99/$74.99/€74.99
What is included in the Deluxe Edition of Jurassic World Evolution 3?
The Deluxe Edition includes four additional spectacular prehistoric family units—Protoceratops, Guanlong, Thanatosdrakon, and Concavenator—plus a collection of scenery items inspired by the Clark County Campaign level, and an exclusive ATV skin. Learn more.
What’s new in Jurassic World Evolution 3?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 pushes the boundaries of dinosaur park simulation, bringing highly requested new features such as the ability to breed prehistoric species and care for entire family units, each with distinct female, male, and juvenile variants.
Alongside a comprehensive breeding system, we’re also giving players more creative freedom than ever before, with a range of intuitive tools that allow them to effortlessly shape terrain, create stunning waterfalls and valleys, and add texture and foliage. In addition to these tools, you’ll also have access to a wide range of scenery and blueprints, which can be further customised down to the finest detail to create the ultimate park.
An all-new original campaign narrative will also put players through their park management paces, as you take on new challenges across a sprawling map with stunning locations, featuring returning characters such as the iconic Dr Ian Malcolm, voiced by Jeff Goldblum.
Learn more.
Will there be a physical edition of Jurassic World Evolution 3?
Yes, we’re excited to reveal that physical editions of Jurassic World Evolution 3 are now available to pre-order for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X at all major retailers.
Order Your Physical Edition Now
Does the game link into the new film, Jurassic World Rebirth?
Taking place after the events of Jurassic World Dominion, our campaign is an exciting original narrative that sees players balance competing human interests with the delicate integration of dinosaurs into our modern world. You’ll work across multiple locations, including never-before-visited islands inspired by Japan and Hawaii, to house, breed, and protect a plethora of prehistoric species to create thriving sanctuaries. Learn more.
What dinosaurs and prehistoric animals are in Jurassic World Evolution 3?
Discover all the dinosaurs and prehistoric animals featured in Jurassic World Evolution 3.
Learn more
What are the differences between Jurassic World Evolution 3 on PC and console?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 has been designed to provide a great experience regardless of which platform you play on. The game can be played either using a keyboard and mouse or gamepad depending on your preference, while console users do have a (generous) build cap that acts as a useful tool to ensure the best possible performance on your hardware.
What languages will Jurassic World Evolution 3 be available in?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 supports the following languages English, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Polish, Simplified and Traditional Chinese, Korean, and Japanese.
What are the PC system requirements for Jurassic World Evolution 3?
The minimum and recommended PC system requirements for Jurassic World Evolution 3 are:
OS
Minimum
Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system Windows 10 64bit (min version 22H2)
Recommended
Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system Windows 10, 11
Processor
Minimum
Intel i5-6600K / AMD Ryzen 5 2600
Recommended
Intel i7-10700K / AMD Ryzen 7 5800
Memory
Minimum
16 GB RAM
Recommended
16 GB RAM
Graphics
Minimum
NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB VRAM) / AMD Radeon RX 5600XT (6GB VRAM) / Intel Arc A750 (8GB VRAM)
Recommended
NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070 Super (8GB VRAM) / AMD Radeon RX 6700 XT (12GB VRAM) / Intel Arc B580 (12GB VRAM)
DirectX
Minimum
Version 12
Recommended
Version 12
Storage
Minimum
25 GB available space
Recommended
25 GB available space
What are the accessibility specifications in Jurassic World Evolution 3?
Accessibility features in Jurassic World Evolution 3 include:
Save Anytime
Subtitles
Colour Alternatives
Camera Comfort
Custom Volume Controls
Stereo Sound
Surround Sound
Playable without Timed Input
For platform specific information, please refer to the store page for Xbox and PlayStation.
Where can you buy Jurassic World Evolution 3?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 is available digitally via Steam, Epic Games Store, Microsoft Store, as well as in the Xbox and PlayStation stores.
Is Jurassic World Evolution 3 coming to previous generation consoles?
There are no plans to bring Jurassic World Evolution 3 to previous generation consoles.
Is Jurassic World Evolution 3 going to be on Xbox Game Pass or PS Plus?
We don’t have anything to share regarding Xbox Game Pass/PS Plus.
Will Jurassic World Evolution 3 be coming to Nintendo Switch/Switch 2?
There are no current plans to bring Jurassic World Evolution 3 to Nintendo Switch or the Switch 2.
Is there MacOS support for Jurassic World Evolution 3?
There are no plans to release Jurassic World Evolution 3 for MacOS.
Will Jurassic World Evolution 3 come to any additional platforms in the future?
There are no plans to bring Jurassic World Evolution 3 to additional platforms in the future.
Will there be DLC?
The team are fully focused on launch and don’t have anything to share regarding future content.
Is there multiplayer in Jurassic World Evolution 3?
While there is no multiplayer in Jurassic World Evolution 3, players will be able to share their creations and download others’ parks and blueprints via the in-game workshop, across platforms.
Can I play with keyboard and mouse on a console?
Absolutely – while Jurassic World Evolution 3 is designed to provide a great experience with console gamepads, you’ll also be able to plug in your keyboard and mouse if you’d prefer!
Can I play with a gamepad on PC?
Yes – you’ll be able to play with either your keyboard and mouse or with a gamepad on PC, the choice is yours.
Does Jurassic World Evolution 3 require an internet connection to play?
Once downloaded, you’ll be able to play offline, however you will need to be connected to the internet to download blueprints from the in-game workshop or share parks with your friends.
Will there be build caps for console users?
Yes – we’ll have more to share on this in the coming weeks, but there will be a (generous!) limit on the complexity of your parks on console to ensure a great experience.
Can players share parks and build together asynchronously like in Planet Coaster 2?
No – while players will be able to upload and download creations to the in-game workshop and share their parks with friends across platforms, they won’t be able to build asynchronously in the same park.
Does Jurassic World Evolution 3 support widescreen monitors?
Yes – Jurassic World Evolution 3 offers support for widescreen monitors.
I don’t have a high-spec PC or a current gen console, can I still play the game?
Jurassic World Evolution 3 will be available through our partnership with NVIDIA’s GeForce NOW cloud gaming service. GeForce NOW allows us to reach players who may not have access to high-powered hardware, so that they can enjoy instant access to our titles with the best possible performance.
Will you continue to support Jurassic World Evolution 2 or is this the end?
Our talented support team will continue to help players with any issues they may experience in Jurassic World Evolution 2, however our development team are now focusing on Jurassic World Evolution 3.
View all
Player guides
Beginner
Rebirth Expansion Guide
Getting Started
Welcome to Jurassic World Evolution 3
Beginner
Construction Guide
View All
Controls & Keyboard Shortcuts
Discover Jurassic World Evolution 3's control schemes, including handy shortcuts, with an overview of all the controls you'll need on gamepad or mouse and keyboard.
Learn More
Support articles
The most popular articles from our Customer Support
My graphics card's drivers are out of date
6/30/2026
How can I report a Workshop creation?
10/20/2025
I purchased the standard edition. Can I still get the Deluxe Edition content?
10/20/2025
Jurassic World Evolution 3 - Operation failed when trying to save
10/15/2025
Launch, crashing or performance issues with Jurassic World Evolution 3 on console
10/15/2025
Launch, crashing or performance issues with Jurassic World Evolution 3 on PC
10/15/2025
Visit Customer Support
