TITLE: Operations Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
ORIGINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/operations-guide
FINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/operations-guide
SOURCE_SHA256: ea03d7145fa0321063dd0c95018dc7a681db08ede393c3929b9ffbf3868c8519
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-09-21
--- EXTRACTED_VISIBLE_GUIDE_BODY ---
Table of contents
Introduction
Powering Your Park
Maintaining Your Park
Dinosaur Care
Operational Facilities
Running and operating a park full of dinosaurs is no easy task
Managing multiple moving parts is a core skill when running a dinosaur park, with power, park maintenance and operational teams to manage.
"The key to a happy life is to accept you are never actually in control." Simon Masrani
Powering Your Park
Keeping the lights on across your park is an absolute necessity when a power outage could result in the escape of dinosaurs and danger to your guests.
Power Requirements
Facilities, fences and attractions can all require Power in order to run, so you need to build an effective Power network to keep your park running.
Did You Know?
An operational power grid is needed for buildings to function, but beware of power outages, bad weather, and sabotage efforts.
Power Output
Both Power Stations and Backup Generators can supply Power to buildings and fences that need it.
The total Power Consumption of buildings and fences within the same Power delivery network must be equal to or lower than the available Power.
This is to prevent them from losing Power.
The total Power Output of a Power Station can be increased with Building Upgrades. You can also place additional Power Stations to increase the total available Power in a site.
Power Distribution
Power Stations can supply Power more efficiently and cheaply compared to Backup Generators, but require the use of Substations and Pylons to get that Power to the buildings and fences that need it.
Did You Know?
Power stations won't work unless they are connected to a path, so remember to add one!
Large and Small Substations can supply Power within their radius, but only when they’re connected to a Power Station via Pylons. As the names imply, the Large Substation has a much greater radius of Power delivery compared to the Small Substation.
Repeater Substations can be chained to deliver power without using pylons. Do this by supplying power from a Backup Generator, or by placing the Repeater Substation withing range of another Powered Substation (which can also include other Repeater Substations).
Power Stations are the core of the Power network in your park, along with substations.
Open the Power menu.
Select the Power Station, choosing between a Small or Large Power Station.
Choose the Appearance of the Power Station or create a Custom Design.
Place the Power Station in your park.
Substations are required to distribute Power from Power Stations around your park. Build Substations and connect them to your Power Station using Pylons. Consider the highlighted area around your Substations which indicates the area they can provide Power to.
Connect the Power Station to your path network.
Did You Know?
Repeater Substations allow you to distribute power around the park without having to construct pylons.
Backup Generators
Backup Generators can Power buildings and fences with their radius. They can be placed almost anywhere as they do not require a path connection to function.
Backup Generators consume Fuel in order to supply Power, at a rate proportional to the amount of Power drawn from it. Fuel must be regularly resupplied either manually or automatically via a Maintenance ATV Team Patrol.
Backup Generators will only be used to Power nearby buildings and fences if they are required to meet demand. If the buildings and fences are receiving Power from another source, the Backup Generator will remain idle, but will be able to activate if the Power goes out.
Backup Generators are a source of reserve Power for your buildings when nothing else is available.
Open the Power menu.
Select the Backup Generator.
Choose the Appearance of the Backup Generator or create a Custom Design.
Place the Backup Generator in your park. Consider the highlighted area around the Backup Generator which indicates the area it can provide Power to.
Ensure your Backup Generator is periodically supplied with Fuel.
Maintaining Your Park
Your park will need routine care and maintenance in order to keep running smoothly.
Did You Know?
Maintenance Teams can manually reboot sabotaged Power Stations and Gates.
Maintenance Posts
Maintenance ATV Teams can be assigned to Maintenance Posts. They can then automatically Repair, Reboot, Resupply, and Inspect buildings and fences within that post's radius.
The inner radius of the Maintenance Post covers buildings for Repair, Reboot, Resupply, and Inspection tasks. The outer radius covers only fences and provides Repair coverage for them.
Repairs
enclosures
, allowing them to escape and become a threat to guests.Severe weather events can also damage fences and buildings. If enough damage is dealt, they can stop functioning altogether.
Use Maintenance ATV Teams to repair destroyed buildings and fences. This can be done manually as a direct task, or automatically by any Maintenance ATV assigned to patrol a nearby Maintenance Post.
ATV Maintenance Teams will resupply your buildings, complete essential repairs around your park and can be assigned in a few ways:
Select a Maintenance Post.
Select Add Maintenance Team.
Choose and select your preferred ATV Maintenance Team.
The ATV Maintenance Team will now automatically complete any relevant tasks from this Maintenance Post.
Select an ATV Maintenance Team in the Maintenance Facility or out in your park.
Select Add Task.
Select the maintenance task you want the Maintenance Team to complete.
Maintenance Teams can also be assigned to Maintenance Posts in this way.
Use the Quick Access menu when playing on gamepad.
Dinosaur Care
The dinosaurs in your park require active monitoring and care to ensure they are healthy and your guests aren’t at risk.
Ranger Teams
Ranger Teams perform an important role in your parks, monitoring the health of your dinosaurs, restocking feeders, wrangling dinosaurs back into enclosures and more.
Direct Control
or Task Assignment. When Ranger Teams are Patrolling or carrying out assigned tasks, they can use Fuel and Food Supplies from their Response Facility. These need to be topped up periodically.
Did You Know?
Ranger teams can get attacked by Dinosaurs if provoked. Use flares to distract, or chase away dinosaurs. Replace destroyed ranger teams in their parent Response Facility.
To enable Ranger Teams to perform some tasks automatically, place a Ranger Post within range of any dinosaurs. Assign a Ranger Team to the post and, within the range of that post, they will automatically carry out Status Checks and also Feeder resupply and disinfecting when needed.
Infected Food Sources
Some dinosaur Diseases are caused by dinosaurs eating from Infected Feeders or dead dinosaurs.
Use a Ranger Team to Disinfect feeders or the Transport Tool to remove Infected dinosaur corpses to stop further Disease spread.
Ranger Teams will automatically Disinfect any feeders within the range Ranger Posts they are assigned to patrol.
Mobile Veterinary Unit
Diseases
using a Medical Scan.
Medical Scans can be performed manually as a directed task, or automatically as part of a patrol, as long as an MVU Team is assigned to a Ranger Post within the vicinity of the selected dinosaurs.
Once identified, Research the right cure for a Disease at the Science Centre. Once researched, administer the cure with a dart from the MVU.
MVUs can also be assigned to Ranger Posts, allowing you to automate their patrols. If an MVU is assigned to a post within range when an unknown ailment has been detected in a dinosaur, they will be dispatched to perform a medical scan.
MVUs will automatically treat any minor injury they come across, as well as any disease for which the cure has already been researched. Scientists are needed to complete treatment, as well as adequate time and money. Dinosaurs can only be transported after tranquilising them using the Capture Team.
After the treatment is complete, the dinosaur must be transported from the Paleo-Medical Facility back to its home location using the Transport Tool.
You will need to build a Paleo-Medical Facility to access the MVU and provide medical care for your dinosaurs:
Open the Operations menu.
Select the Paleo-Medical Facility.
Choose the Appearance of the Paleo-Medical Facility or create a Custom Design.
Place the Paleo-Medical Facility in your park. Consider the distance your MVU will need to travel to reach your dinosaurs.
Connect the Paleo-Medical Facility to your path network and provide it with Power.
Drones
Use Drones to Status Check, Medical Scan, Medicate and Tranquilise animals inside Lagoons and Aviaries. Assign Ranger Teams and MVU Teams to Patrol the Hatcheries attached to Lagoons and Aviaries in order to use the drones within them. Drones can also be directly controlled via the Hatchery Drone panel. They use the same controls as Capture Teams.
Capture Teams
Capture Teams from Response Facilities can be used to Tranquilise rampaging dinosaurs. This can be done either manually as a direct task, or automatically as part of a patrol, as long as they are assigned to a Security Camera that detects the dinosaurs being a threat to guests.
Capture Teams use a helicopter to target dinosaurs that need Tranquilising after escape or prior to transportation. They can also use Stimulant Darts to awaken Tranquilised dinosaurs.
Security Camera
so they respond automatically to events within their range.
Use the Transport Tool to move Tranquilised dinosaurs back into their enclosures. Remember to close any Shelters that were opened as part of the response to the dinosaur danger.
Did You Know?
To move a dinosaur with a Transport Team, you first need to Tranquillise it with a Capture Team.
Capture Teams will not be able to tranquillise all dinosaurs on the site by default. Both wild and tamed dinosaurs may need upgrades to bring them down.
Tranquilliser upgrades are directly linked to their security rating. These upgrades can be found in the tech tree.
Once an upgrade has been researched you will be able to tranquillise dinosaurs up to the stated security rating.
You will need to build a Response Facility to access Ranger and Capture Teams for your park.
Open the Operations menu.
Select the Response Facility.
Choose the Appearance of the Response Facility or create a Custom Design.
Place the Response Facility in your park. Consider the distance your Ranger Teams and Capture Teams will need to travel to reach your dinosaurs.
Connect the Response Facility to your path network and provide it with Power.
Operational Facilities
Arrival Point
attractions
.
As the central node for your park, it’s important to carefully consider the placement of the Arrival Point, ensuring easy access to Transport and other operational buildings.
Guest Demographics
of the visitors to your park.
Science Centre
dinosaur genomes
. Research completed at the Science Centre unlocks new technologies, dinosaur modifications and facility improvements.
Park Management Guide
.
Expedition Centre
Use the Expedition Centre to send dig teams to Dig Sites across the world. They’ll return with Fossils, which contain genetic information. This is used to create new dinosaurs.
Scientists
to lead them on Dig Site visits. The digs themselves take time and money to complete.
The Science Centre lets you extract Dinosaur Genome from collected fossils. Dig Teams can also find valuable materials that can be sold for cash.
Send your scientists out into the world to bring back new fossils and make new DNA discoveries.
Open the Expedition Map. You have to construct an operational Expedition Centre to access Expeditions.
Select which Scientist you would like to assign to an expedition based on the requirements, then Start Task. Note the costs and time required for the Expedition to be completed.
Once an expedition is complete, the fossils your scientists bring back will be available in your Science Centre. You can extract DNA from these fossils to use in your Hatcheries.
Control Centres and Visitor Centres
Control Centres and Visitor Centres act as the headquarters of your park, enabling operations and scientist management.
Once built new scientists can be found and hired at these buildings.
Staff Centre
A place for your staff to get some downtime, the Staff Centre increases scientist hiring capacity and offers Rest to counter Unrest.
On-site training can also be completed at the Staff Centre to increase scientist skills.
Scientists Guide
.
Dinosaur Marketplace
Build a Marketplace Facility to purchase offsite prehistoric animals as an alternative way to populate and expand the site’s roster.
Marketplace sellers have different levels of trustworthiness. Sometimes, what gets delivered to the park isn’t exactly what was paid for...

