TITLE: Park Management Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
ORIGINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/park-management-guide
FINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/park-management-guide
SOURCE_SHA256: 07309d161d2d8ae1ed1a935a9d5495019cef141b75dee5d9723993e00a529ab8
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-09-21
--- EXTRACTED_VISIBLE_GUIDE_BODY ---
Table of contents
Introduction
Management Tools
Park Rating
Research
Reputation
Global and Local Resources
Park Maintenance
Park Finances
Fuel and Food
Calamities and Sabotage
Learn the basics of managing your own dinosaur park
There’s plenty to master when it comes to creating and running an efficient dinosaur park, from pleasing guests to completing essential research.
"Don't you see the danger, John, inherent in what you're doing here? Genetic power is the most awesome force the planet's ever seen, but you wield it like a kid that's found his dad's gun." Dr. Ian Malcolm
Management Tools
A lot can happen in a dinosaur park, luckily there are a number of helpful tools you can rely on when managing your site.
Site Map
Access the Site Map directly or interact with the Side Menu to view the Site Map to get a high level overview of the site.
The Site Map highlights Buildings, Fences, Vehicles and Dinosaurs in icon form for quick identification.
Items on the Site Map that require attention will be easily identifiable at a glance by their red highlight.
Management Views
Management Views enable you to find specific information about your park with heatmaps and overlays.
Management Views are available for:
Dinosaur Breeding
Amenity Configuration
Shelter
Guest Appeal
Restrooms
Dinosaur Visibility
Transport
Ranger Patrols
Guest Demographics
)
Power
Amenity Coverage
Storm Protection
Guest Crowding
Maintenance
Profit Generation
Security
Use the Management Views to examine various useful overlays of your level facilities, guests and dinosaurs.
Did You Know?
Use the Site Map to quickly locate any trouble in your park.
Time Controls
Use Time Controls to pause time, allowing you to take stock of important moments, or spend time planning out the site.
Use time controls to accelerate time, allowing you to speed through long tasks such as dinosaur transportation.
Be careful when using Time Controls to accelerate time, as problems can start to escalate quickly.
Did You Know?
Use the time controls to your advantage. Pause the game if you’re getting overwhelmed and need a moment to breathe.
Park Rating
Park Rating is determined by your Park Metrics.
There are four Park Metrics that are assessed and combined to determine a site’s final Park Rating. This is a measure of what the site needs in order to be seen as successful.
strong economy
behind it to achieve the metrics in the first place. Some metrics will lead to higher profits when met, but others may require upfront spending to achieve.
Each scenario and site will have different Park Metrics as you work to meet the varying requirements of the sectors and groups behind your parks.You can view what Park Metrics need to be targeted to reach a higher Park Rating in the Control Room menu.
Park Metrics vary and can include elements like your park’s total dinosaur count, income per minute, total money, number of tours etc. When starting a new site first check what Park Metrics your Park Rating will be measured against.
Increasing your Park Rating is an indication of how successfully you are running your park.
Open the Control Room to view your Park Rating and the Park Metrics that are being measured.
Complete actions to improve each of the Park Metrics highlighted in the Control Room, this may include increasing the number of guests in your park, improving your income or a variety of other factors.
Check back in the Control Room to monitor your progress and repeat the process. Your Park Rating is based on an average of these Park Metrics, so be sure to work on improving each of them to increase your overall Park Rating.
Research
Science Centre
and offers a wide range of options to expand and enhance the site.
Did You Know?
Research new building upgrades and use them to enhance your buildings' effectiveness.
Scientists
to perform Research Tasks to unlock access to new buildings, building Upgrades, dig sites, medicine and other operational improvements. Most Research requires specific Skills, money and time to perform.
Access to new nodes in the Research screen requires researching the previous nodes first. Some nodes may have additional unlock requirements listed as well.
Completing Research provides new upgrades, attractions and more for your parks.
Open the Research menu. A Science Centre is required in your park to access this menu.
Choose and select from the categories of Research available. Each category will indicate how much Research is available or has already been completed.
Choose and select from the available Research within your chosen category. Each Research Node will have its own Requirements to both unlock and complete. These may include completing other Nodes, meeting Scientist Skill levels, paying cash and completing other objectives within your park.
Once a Research Node is selected, you must assign Scientists to complete the Research.
Select from your available Scientists to assign them and meet the Requirements for the Research. Assigning more than the necessary number of Scientists will provide speed bonuses to the completion time of the Research.
Select Start Task and wait for the research to be completed.
Building Upgrades
Some buildings have potential Building Upgrades. These can be unlocked to improve building effectiveness and performance.
Building Upgrades can be researched in the Science Centre. You can also use the Science Centre to research additional Upgrade Slots for buildings.
Once researched you can choose available Building Upgrades from a building's Upgrade Panel.
Upgrades to buildings can provide bonuses and improvements to their operation.
Select the building you’d like to upgrade.
If a building can be upgraded, an Upgrades tab will be available in the building’s menu.
Select an available Upgrade Slot.
Choose and select your preferred upgrade from the available options, taking note of the cost and Upgrade Info.
Once selected, the upgrade will be applied to the building.
Additional upgrade options can be unlocked through Research.
Reputation
Reputation is an indicator of your relationship with each key industry sector: the Conservation Sector, the Security Sector and the Entertainment Sector. The higher the Reputation Level, the better.
Reputation can be increased by completing certain Site Objectives, acquiring certain species, and by completing Contracts.
Reputation is shared across all sites in the Campaign, so travelling to a different location and completing objectives is a good way to boost it.
Increase Reputation Levels to gain access to new Campaign Sites, new Research, and certain listings in the Marketplace.
Global and Local Resources
There are two different kinds of Resources in the Campaign. Local Resources are created and used within a single site, and Global Resources are created and can be used across the entire Campaign.
Money, Fossils, and Scientists are all Local Resources. They are created and used within a single site, and cannot be transferred to other sites. They are also never assessed in a global way.
Genome Completion, Research, Expedition Map Progress, Reputation, and Park Rating are Global Resources. Although these are created within sites, they can be used or assessed in a global way.
Reputation and Park Rating in particular allow you to unlock new sites in the campaign.
Park Maintenance
Over time, infrastructure will begin to degrade due to wear and tear. The site's Maintenance Rating is an ongoing assessment of how well maintained a site's infrastructure is. With a poor rating, infrastructure may prematurely malfunction, or suffer catastrophic damage during severe weather.
Build Maintenance Facilities to assign Maintenance ATV Teams to repair destroyed or sabotaged infrastructure. They can also be assigned tasks to resupply and inspect buildings in order to prevent wear and tear, which in turn promotes a high Maintenance Rating.
Did You Know?
If a building, fence, or power line is damaged they can be repaired by a Maintenance Team.
Build Maintenance Posts to automate Repair, Reboot, Resupply and Inspection tasks for assigned Maintenance ATV Teams. All infrastructure within the inner radius of the Maintenance Post will be covered, and all fences within the outer radius will also be covered against breakage.
Operations Guide
.
Park Finances
Effectively managing money moving in and out of your park is critical for the longevity of your park and its ability to turn a profit.
Finances Guide
.
Fuel and Food
Backup Generators use Fuel and provide power to infrastructure within their limited radius.
The rate of Fuel consumption varies based on the amount of Power being used by that infrastructure.
Ranger Teams and Capture Teams use Fuel as they complete their tasks. Ranger Teams will also use Food in order to restock Feeders. Both Food and Fuel is stored at a team's respective facility, and requires regular restocking.
Restock Food and Fuel by interacting with the relevant building directly, or automatically with a Maintenance Patrol. Both methods will incur a cost.
Calamities and Sabotage
Calamities and Sabotage Guide
to learn more.

