Jurassic World Evolution 3: Rebirth Expansion Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
Open Menu
Home
Game Info
Features
Game Modes
Dinosaurs
Workshop
Workshop
Discover a wide range of useful and inventive creations to add to your game.
Log In
Trending Creations
Dark Maintenance Facility
Rickit1997
321
0
2
Sharecode        5ZD-64V-BXW
Copied!
Mayan-Aztec repeater
Ciivam
26
0
1
Sharecode        BPW-MK3-WN6
Copied!
Temple of the Thunder
Ciivam
78
0
1
Sharecode        7G0-0HD-0L0
Copied!
5 / 5
Asian Imperial Gate Arrival point (No helipad)
DragonHallow
885
26
28
Sharecode        4S8-994-VW6
Copied!
News & Media
News & Media
All the latest news and game updates.
News
Gallery
Update notes
News
This Month in Jurassic World Evolution 3 - August 2026
News
Park Manager's Toolbox - Building Semi-Aquatic Predator Enclosures
News
Jurassic World Evolution 3: Crocodilia Coast & Update 1.4 - Out Now!
News
Behind the Scenes: Designing Species for the Crocodilia Coast
Community
Help
Help
Find everything you need to know about Jurassic World Evolution 3, including frequently asked questions and useful links.
FAQ
Player guides
Controls & Keyboard Shortcuts
Beginner
Jurassic World Evolution 3: Rebirth Expansion Guide
Getting Started
Welcome to Jurassic World Evolution 3
Beginner
Construction Guide
Getting Started
Quickstart Guide
Dlc
dlc
All the latest DLC available for Jurassic World Evolution 3.
View more
Crocodilia Coast
Featuring a bite force more powerful than the Tyrannosaurus rex, prepare to welcome the first crocodile to the Jurassic World Evolution game franchise – the Deinosuchus.Buy now
Buy Now
Player guides
Beginner
Jurassic World Evolution 3: Rebirth Expansion Guide
Table of contents
Introduction
Powering Île Saint-Hubert
Building Your Facility
Working on Île Saint-Hubert
Tools
Everything you need to know to run the top-secret facility on Île Saint-Hubert
Master the nuances of managing a research site on a remote island with this helpful guide to powering your facilities, completing Assignments and caring for impressive new dinosaurs.
"We need to be ready. Everyone, put this site through its paces" Lily Halford
Powering Île Saint-Hubert
Ensuring a steady flow of power around the island is integral for keeping enclosures secure, facilities running and workers safe.
Geothermal Power
Steam is heated and pressurised in the heart of Île Saint-Hubert to create power. That power is then spread to Research Sites through a network of pipes. Research sites can access this power using Geothermal Supply pipes that can be found at each site. Connecting a Supply pipe to a Geothermal Generator will provide Power around the generator. The total power that a Supply pipe provides, and a Generator's Power radius, can be upgraded via Research.
Geothermal Splitters accept one input pipe, and split the flow of power into two output pipes. Each output pipe carries half the power of the input pipe. If there is no unused power remaining in a Geothermal Supply pipe, there may be another Geothermal Supply on site that could provide additional power. Alternatively, see if you can increase the island's Geothermal power output through Research.
Did You Know?
If nearby structures lose power when placing infrastructure near a Geothermal Generator, it's likely there isn't enough power available at that generator. Select the nearest Geothermal Supply pipe to see if there is Unused Power available in the network.
If there is unused power, then edit the Geothermal network or the location of the structures accordingly to make use of all the power available. Remember, Geothermal Splitters divide input power between their two outputs. Too many Splitters in a network will heavily reduce available power.
How To Build a Geothermal Power Network
Build and expand Île Saint-Hubert geothermal power network with ease.
Open the Power menu.
Select and place a Geothermal Generator.
Connect the Geothermal Generator to a Geothermal Supply with underground pipes.
In the Jurassic World Rebirth Expansion Campaign, Geothermal Supply points are in fixed locations and cannot be moved so you will need to consider this when powering the sites. Find Geothermal Supply Points by navigating to the power heatmap.
To spread power from the Geothermal Supply pipe to multiple generators, use Geothermal Splitters.
Upgrade the island's network of geothermal power via research as you expand the facility's infrastructure.
Building Your Facility
Growing and improving the research sites will require some construction! To successfully run your facility on Île Saint-Hubert you will need to ensure staff and dinosaurs have all the facilities they need to thrive.
Open Air Aviaries
An experimental innovation on standard Aviaries, this new enclosure requires power to function, otherwise your avian species will fly into the rest of your facility and cause chaos.
The Open Air Aviary largely functions the same as a regular Aviary, with one key difference: Instead of a dome, it generates an electromagnetic field to contain animals. This provides a clearer view of your flying reptiles, and allows for a taller containment area, thanks to great terrain editing heights, as species housed in the Open Air Aviaries will be able to fly higher than in a standard Aviary.
How To Build an Open Air Aviary
Use this exciting new technology developed at your research site to build secure enclosures for your flying species.
Open the Enclosures menu.
Select the Aviary.
Connect the Geothermal Generator to a Geothermal Supply with underground pipes.
If you are in the Jurassic World Rebirth Expansion Campaign mode, the Open Air Aviary will be automatically selected.
If you are in Sandbox mode, you will need to choose the Open Air Aviary from the Aviaries menu, before placing. You will also be able to turn off the visual of the electromagnetic barrier in Sandbox mode.
Place your Aviary in a suitable area. Sections of aviary will snap together to increase its overall size as long as there is room in the buildable area.
Ensure your Open Air Aviary is in range of a generator to keep it powered.
Warning: Without a power source, Flying Reptiles can easily escape.
Working on Île Saint-Hubert
There is a lot of pioneering work going on at the research sites on Île Saint-Hubert! As a technician you will be collaborating with your fellow co-workers to complete Assignments and ground-breaking experiments with your dinosaurs' genetic traits.
Assignments
Projects on Île Saint-Hubert are delivered in the form of Assignments. Each Assignment can involve one or more stages to complete it, and may be restricted to a specific Research Site on the island.
Assignments come in two types:
Priority Assignments are crucial projects that the Director of Operations wants you to complete. These will progress you through the Campaign mode. Sometimes to continue this progression, you will need to complete certain Standard Assignments.
Standard Assignments make up the bulk of your work and can provide a variety of rewards. The majority of these tasks are optional, but they can lead you down a rabbit hole of research!
To view a list of all the Assignments, Available, Active or Completed, navigate to the Control Room and then go to the Assignments menu.
Completing Assignments offers a variety of benefits. You will always be rewarded with Funding, and may also earn some or all of the following:
A better understanding of certain Dinosaur Genomes
New Research
Access to new Assignments
Contracts are also available on Île Saint-Hubert, allowing you to earn additional funds that you'll need to keep your sites running. Learn more about the contracts system in our base game Finances guide.
Experimental Traits
As part of Île Saint-Hubert's pioneering genetic research, they developed powerful traits that can affect a dinosaur's behaviour in a variety of ways. Once an Experimental Trait has been discovered - through the Assignments in the Jurassic World Rebirth Campaign or Research in Sandbox Mode - you can genetically modify almost any species to have that trait. The effects of Experimental Traits can conflict with normal Traits, but the Experimental Trait will always take priority.
These Experimental Traits are:
Bio Resistance
Hardy
Venomous
Poisonous
Amicable
Domesticated
Prolific
Biological Immortality
Animals can have more than one Experimental Trait, and these traits can be passed down to Juveniles through Natural Breeding.
Acquiring Genomes On Île Saint-Hubert
There are two ways to gain genome on Île Saint-Hubert:
As rewards for completing certain Assignments.
Or, for a select few species, by sending Dig Teams out from an Expedition Centre to collect fossils.
These fossils can then have genome extracted from them using a Science Centre.
Tools
Jurassic World Evolution 3: Rebirth Expansion brings with it some new tools for your Ranger teams to use alongside the species at your facility.
Handheld Flare
The Handheld Flare is a new tool for Rangers that allows them to lure or repel dinosaurs. Carnivores and armoured herbivores will be drawn towards the flare, whereas herbivores will generally run away from it.
Take direct control of a Ranger team to use the Handheld Flare. When the Handheld Flare is selected, a radius will appear around the Ranger vehicle. Animals within the radius will respond to the flare when it is activated.
Deep Analyser
Drones can be deployed from Hatcheries to make use of their Deep Analyser function. The Deep Analyser acts as a Welfare and Medical scan, and lets you gather valuable data on an animal's physiology.
To gather enough data, the drone must scan the target dinosaur from a variety of angles. While scanning, a progress bar will show you how close you are to gathering sufficient data.
The first time an animal is scanned will earn you a large funding bonus, and allow you to perform more genetic modifications on that species. Further scans will only provide a smaller funding bonus.
*Both of these tools are available in the base game, Jurassic World Evolution 3, as part of Update 1.3
Read more
Beginner
Construction Guide
Beginner
Vehicles Guide
Beginner
Finances Guide
!Latest News
Sign up and receive an email exclusive ATV skin!
Sign up to the Jurassic World Evolution 3 newsletter to get the latest news and exclusive content!
Subscribe
Signup
Sign up and receive an email exclusive ATV skin!
Sign up to the Jurassic World Evolution 3 newsletter to get the latest news and exclusive content!
First name * Last name * Email address * Country of residence * Please SelectAustriaBelgiumBulgariaCroatiaCyprusCzech RepublicDenmarkEstoniaFinlandFranceGermanyGreeceHungaryIrelandItalyLatviaLithuaniaLuxembourgMaltaNetherlandsPolandPortugalRomaniaSlovakiaSloveniaSpainSwedenUnited KingdomUnited StatesOtherI agree to receive news, updates, and offers for Jurassic World Evolution 3 *I would like to receive my exclusive ATV Skin at launchI agree to receive news, updates and offers from Frontier Developments plcI verify that I am 16 years of age or older and have read and accept the Frontier Developments Privacy Policy *
Please update your cookie consent options to enable marketing cookies in order to submit this form. Cookie declaration
Accept marketing cookies
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA. The Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
close
language
English
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
日本語
한국어
Português Brasileiro
简体中文
Home
Features
Game Modes
Dinosaurs
News
Gallery
Community
Help
Dlc
Buy Now
Jurassic World Evolution
Jurassic World Evolution 2
Jurassic World Evolution 3 © 2025 Universal City Studios LLC and Amblin Entertainment, Inc. All Rights Reserved. © 2025 Frontier Developments plc. Frontier and the Frontier logo are trade marks of Frontier Developments plc, variably registered around the world. All rights reserved. FOOTAGE CAPTURED ON PC. NOT ALL IMAGES APPEAR IN-GAME.
© 2025 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.
Epic, Epic Games, Epic Games Store, the Epic Games Store logo, and Epic Online Services are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Epic Games. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
© 2025 Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC. “PlayStation Family Mark", “PlayStation”, “PS5 logo”, “PS5”, “PlayStation Shapes Logo” and "Play Has No Limits" are registered trademarks or trademarks of Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc.
Microsoft, the Windows logo, Xbox Sphere mark, Series X logo, Series S logo, Series X|S logo, Xbox Series X, Xbox Series S, and Xbox Series X|S are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, GeForce RTX, GeForce Now are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.
Cookie declaration
Games
News
Careers
company
ESG
About Us
Contact
Privacy policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Modern Slavery Statement
Terms and conditions
Jurassic World Evolution
Planet Coaster
Planet Zoo
Elite Dangerous
© 2026 Frontier Developments plc. Frontier and the Frontier logo are trade marks of Frontier Developments plc, variably registered around the world. All rights reserved. All other trade marks and copyright are acknowledged as the property of their respective owners.
Company Registration No: 02892559
VAT Registration No: 374 4283 81