TITLE: Scientists Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
ORIGINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/scientists-guide
FINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/scientists-guide
SOURCE_SHA256: 732f443a919f634217d174cb07d85ac2845c2752049d99efcbf1bf6bd421f935
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-09-21
--- EXTRACTED_VISIBLE_GUIDE_BODY ---
Table of contents
Introduction
Scientist Recruitment
Scientist Skills
Scientist Assignments
Scientist Traits
Scientist Unrest
Scientist Training
People are the backbone of any park
Scientists form a critical part of the workforce across your site, completing research, setting off on expeditions for new fossils and helping create new dinosaurs.
"Nothing in Jurassic World is natural, we have always filled gaps in the genome with the DNA of other animals. And if the genetic code was pure, many of them would look quite different. But you didn't ask for reality, you asked for more teeth." Dr. Henry Wu
Scientist Recruitment
Scientists are key members of staff needed to perform specialist tasks throughout the site, including:
Research
Expeditions
Synthesis
Incubation
Staff Centres
to the site.
Each Scientist has their own pros and cons to consider, with beneficial skills to be balanced against the potential cost. Consider the Skills, Skill Potential, and Traits of each available Scientist against their Salary and Recruitment Fee.
Use the Scientist Recruitment page from the Control Centre in order to browse available Scientists to recruit. This can also be managed directly through the Control Centre facility.
Scientists complete important jobs around your park and you’ll need to make sure you have enough with the right skillsets.
Open the Scientists menu. You have to construct an operational Control Centre to access hiring services.
Select a slot with Recruit Scientist.
If you don’t find a candidate that suits your needs, you can refresh those available to you. This will occur automatically after a fixed time, but can be completed manually at a cost.
Select the Scientist of your choice and confirm the recruitment. The Scientist will now join your pool of available staff.
Scientist Skills
Scientists have three types of Skill they can apply to an assigned task:
Logistics
Genetics
Welfare
They also have Skill Potentials, which show how far a Scientist's Skills can be increased through Training.
In order for a Task to be completed, the assigned Scientists must be able to meet the minimum Skill requirements needed.
Using assigned Scientists who go beyond the minimum Skill requirements for a task will decrease the time it takes to complete that Task.
Scientists can be trained to improve their skill ratings.
Open the Scientists menu.
Select the Scientist you’d like to improve and select Train. You have to construct an operational Staff Centre to access training services.
Assign the Scientist’s available Training Points to the skill you’d like to improve, noting the cost this training will require. Additional Training Points can be unlocked through Research.
Once all the Training Points you’d like to use have been assigned, select Confirm.
The selected skills will now be immediately improved by the number of Training Points assigned.
Did You Know?
Scientists have traits that can affect how good they are at their job, potentially saving time and money.
Scientist Assignments
Some tasks need Scientists to be assigned in order to complete them. For example, Expeditions, Genome Extraction, Dinosaur Synthesis and Incubation all require assigned Scientists.
During task assignment, available Scientists are selected so their Skills and Traits can be applied to the task. You must assign Scientists with enough combined Skill Points to meet the minimum Skill requirement to begin the task.
Each Task also has a Scientist Capacity, which determines the maximum number of Scientists that can be assigned to it.
Assigning Scientists with more Skill Points than needed can decrease the time the task will take.
Scientists can be assigned to various jobs around your park.
Select the activity you’d like a Scientist to complete through the relevant game menus, this includes Research, Expeditions, Dinosaur Synthesis etc.
When a job requiring a Scientist is selected, you’ll be presented with a list of available Scientists to choose from.
Carefully consider the requirements of the job and the skills and traits of your individual Scientists. Where possible, it’s always ideal to assign the Scientist with the best skills and traits for the job in hand.
Confirm your selection and complete any other requirements for the task. The assigned Scientist will be unavailable until the task is completed.
Did You Know?
Staff are expensive to recruit, so think carefully before you fire one.
Scientist Traits
Some Scientists have Traits that give powerful bonuses to certain types of Tasks when they are assigned to them.
Other Traits provide passive bonuses, such as a reduced Salary need.
Trait
Description
Greedy
Increases Salary by 50%
High Potential
Increases all Skill Potentials by 2
Generalist
Increases all Skills by 1
Logistics Specialist
Increases Logistics Potential by 5 and Logistics Skill by 3
Genetics Specialist
Increases Genetics Potential by 5 and Genetics Skill by 3
Welfare Specialist
Increases Welfare Potential by 5 and Welfare Skill by 3
Motivated
Increases Unrest limit by 4
Faster Expeditions
Decreases task time by 50% for Expedition tasks
Faster Research
Decreases task time by 50% for Research tasks
Faster Extraction
Decreases task time by 50% for Extraction tasks
Faster Incubation
Decreases task time by 50% for Incubation tasks
Faster Treatment
Decreases task time by 50% for Veterinary tasks
Faster Synthesis
Decreases task time by 50% for Synthesis tasks
Altruistic Salary
Reduces the salary by 50%
Entitled Salary
Increases Salary by 20%
Positive Influence
Decreases task time by 20% if assigned with at least one other Scientist member
Disgruntled
Increases all task times by 50% - countered by the Rest action
Cheaper Incubation
Reduces the cost of Incubation tasks by 30%
Cheaper Research
Reduces the cost of Research tasks by 30%
Cheaper Expeditions
Reduces the cost of Expedition tasks by 30%
Cheaper Synthesis
Reduces the cost of Synthesis tasks by 30%
Disloyal
Increases Sabotage Risk when performing tasks
Scientist Unrest
When Scientists complete Tasks, they gain Unrest.
If you use a Scientist for a Task when they are at their Unrest limit, they will gain the Disgruntled Trait, which reduces their effectiveness, and impacts the site's Publicity Rating.
Resting a Scientist will reset their Unrest and remove the Disgruntled Trait, but they will be unavailable for tasks while resting. A Staff Centre, which can be found in the Operations menu, is required on the site to Rest Scientists.
You may wish to fire your Scientists to cut costs, remove a disgruntled Scientist or to make space to hire a Scientist with better skills and traits
Open the Scientists menu.
Select the Scientist Options button for the Scientist you’d like to fire.
Select the Fire option and confirm your selection.
The Scientist will then be fired and will no longer be available.
Scientist Training
Scientists have a Skill Potential for each of their Skills. This is the highest possible value they can increase each Skill through Training.
By Researching Scientist Training at the Science Centre, Training Points will become available for your Scientists to use to raise their Skills.
Training Points can be spent on Scientists to raise their Skills towards their Skill Potential. A Staff Centre, which can be found in the Operations menu, is required in the park to train Scientists.
Did You Know?
You can reduce task times by adding more Scientists to a task than you need.

