TITLE: Vehicles Guide - Player Guides - Jurassic World Evolution 3
ORIGINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/vehicles-guide
FINAL_URL: https://www.jurassicworldevolution.com/en-US/3/help/player-guides/vehicles-guide
SOURCE_SHA256: 6bd441816f714817b04d66650c95592f54178486ca34019e5b873663b1adc6b8
ACCESS_DATE: 2026-09-21
--- EXTRACTED_VISIBLE_GUIDE_BODY ---
Table of contents
Introduction
Controlling Vehicles
Capture Teams
Dinosaur Vehicle Danger
Send and Summon
Photography
Take matters into your own hands
Sometimes you might want to use a personal touch when running your park like taking direct control over your operational vehicles.
"Well, we clocked the T. rex at 32 miles an hour." John Hammond
Controlling Vehicles
You can drive ground-based vehicles by taking direct control of them, including:
ATVs
MVUs
Ranger Vehicles
Some vehicles can agitate nearby animals, this can be used to encourage dinosaurs to move.
You can also control Helicopters when they're already in flight, or you can manually take-off from their landing pad.
While directly controlling a vehicle, you can back out of the vehicle to return to the normal camera view.
Did You Know?
Repeater Substations allow you to distribute power around the park without having to construct pylons.
Each vehicle has specialised tools when under direct control. Make sure to use the right tool for the right job.
Controls Guide
.
Capture Teams
When using direct control for Capture Team vehicles, switch to Aim Mode to shoot darts. You can cycle between Tranquilisation and Stimulant Darts.
You can use also Lock-On instead of Aim Mode. Approach a dinosaur and use Lock-On to mark it as the target for the dart-gun handler. Whilst Locked-On, if the dart-gun handler has a clear shot, fire a Tranquilisation Dart at the target.
Dinosaur Vehicle Danger
Dinosaurs can become a threat to vehicles that enter their enclosures. Some dinosaur species are more tolerant of nearby vehicles than others.
Use Flares to manually distract particularly dangerous dinosaurs that are a threat to vehicles. Assign Capture Teams to Ranger Posts to automatically Tranquilise dinosaurs that become a threat to vehicles within their range.
Damaged vehicles need to return to their base of operation to receive repairs.
Send and Summon
Commands can be used when in a vehicle to direct the movement of dinosaurs:
Summon commands dinosaurs to gather around the vehicle.
Send commands dinosaurs to move in the direction given from the vehicle.
Dinosaurs can be sent directly through Gates using the Send command, and it will automatically open and close for them.
Photography
All park teams carry a camera for research and cataloguing purposes.
Did You Know?
Use the Ranger Team camera to earn some additional cash photographing your dinosaurs.
You can use the camera while controlling a team vehicle to take photos. This may be required by some objectives, Contracts, and Research, but can also be used to generate cash.
Photos are scored based on the featured dinosaurs, the behaviours captured, and the overall composition. The higher the score, the more money they can be sold for. Selling photos of the same species in quick succession will apply a penalty to the overall score.

